This program demonstrates a transposition cipher.
A cipher is an algorithm to encrypt or decrypt a message.

This program will demonstrate encrypting a message with
a columnar transposition cipher both with and without
padding characters. The program will then decrypt a message
assuming it was encrypted with a columnar transposition cipher
with padding.
After accepting user input, the program displays some tests.


A demonstration of encrypting with a columnar transposition cipher:

Enter the message to encrypt: is it time to go yet?

Message encrypted with columnar transposition cipher and no padding.
Encrypted with 2 rows: i ttm og e?si iet oyt
Encrypted with 3 rows: iiteooesti   t  mtgy?
Encrypted with 4 rows: itmo ?s e y t geiitot
Encrypted with 5 rows: i  o?stt  ioyim etegt
Encrypted with 6 rows: itoesi t mg?ieot   ty
Encrypted with 7 rows: iigsmo e i ytte ott ?
Encrypted with 8 rows: im sey  eittto?  tgio
Encrypted with 9 rows: iees t t?iot  gtoi my
Encrypted with 10 rows: i ?st oi tg ot iymeet

Message encrypted with columnar transposition cipher and padding.

Clear text padded for 2 rows: is it time to go yet?X
Encrypted with 2 rows: i ttm og e?si iet oytX

Clear text padded for 3 rows: is it time to go yet?
Encrypted with 3 rows: iiteooesti   t  mtgy?

Clear text padded for 4 rows: is it time to go yet?XXX
Encrypted with 4 rows: itmo ?s e yX t geXiitotX

Clear text padded for 5 rows: is it time to go yet?XXXX
Encrypted with 5 rows: i  o?stt X ioyXim eXtegtX

Clear text padded for 6 rows: is it time to go yet?XXX
Encrypted with 6 rows: itoesi t mg?ieoXt  X tyX

Clear text padded for 7 rows: is it time to go yet?
Encrypted with 7 rows: iigsmo e i ytte ott ?

Clear text padded for 8 rows: is it time to go yet?XXX
Encrypted with 8 rows: im sey  eittto?  XtgXioX

Clear text padded for 9 rows: is it time to go yet?XXXXXX
Encrypted with 9 rows: iees t t?ioXt X gXtoXi XmyX

Clear text padded for 10 rows: is it time to go yet?XXXXXXXXX
Encrypted with 10 rows: i ?stX oXi XtgX oXt XiyXmeXetX


A demonstration of decrypting with a columnar transposition cipher:
If the length of the message is not a multiple of the number of rows
it will be padded which may throw off the decryption.

Enter the message to decrypt: tsmxh paialms ep s liiee

Messages Decrypted with a Columnar Transposition Cipher

Decrypted text padded for 2 rows: tsmxh paialms ep s liiee
Decrypted with 2 rows: tss mexph  sp aliiaileme

Decrypted text padded for 3 rows: tsmxh paialms ep s liiee
Decrypted with 3 rows: ti sasml xmlhsi  ipeeape

Decrypted text padded for 4 rows: tsmxh paialms ep s liiee
Decrypted with 4 rows: tps sa lmieixapihl e mse

Decrypted text padded for 5 rows: tsmxh paialms ep s liieeX
Decrypted with 5 rows: t lpispm imassexi  ehaelX

Decrypted text padded for 6 rows: tsmxh paialms ep s liiee
Decrypted with 6 rows: this is a simple example

Decrypted text padded for 7 rows: tsmxh paialms ep s liieeXXXX
Decrypted with 7 rows: this iXs a siXmple eXxampleX

Decrypted text padded for 8 rows: tsmxh paialms ep s liiee
Decrypted with 8 rows: txpasp ishal  lem imesie

Decrypted text padded for 9 rows: tsmxh paialms ep s liieeXXX
Decrypted with 9 rows: txpasp iXshal  leXm imesieX

Decrypted text padded for 10 rows: tsmxh paialms ep s liieeXXXXXX
Decrypted with 10 rows: txpasp iXXshal  leXXm imesieXX
